# 0.16 (2023-05-07)

## Support for SPDX-formatted software build of materials (SBOM)

As of v0.14, releng-tool supported a series of formats to use for generating a
SBOM document. All these formats are generic documents, not following any
specification. With v0.16, this release introduces initial support for
SPDX-styled SBOM documents (JSON and RDP/XML formats).

These documents attempt to follow the SPDX v2.3 specification. Assuming
projects use valid [SPDX license identifiers][spdx], generated SPDX SBOM
documents should be compliant with the specification.

[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/

## Support for Meson package types

Introduction of the `meson` package type. These new package types allow a
developer to easily invoke Meson targets at various stages, without needing
invoke these tools inside a scripts package.

## Accept module-specific local-sources using `:`

Users overriding module-specific local-sources could do so using an at sign
(`@`) to identify between a package and a target path. For example:

```
releng-tool --local-sources libfoo@~/devwork/libfoo
```

An issue using the `@` is that a user may not easily be able to use tab
completion for a target path in their shell environment. To help support
shells with tab completion support, these commands now accept an alternative
format using a colon (`:`) character. For example:

```
releng-tool --local-sources libfoo:~/devwork/libfoo
```

Both formats are supported.

## Notable fixes

Two notable issues have been addressed from previous releases:

1) SBOM support when using the `html` format would generate a document with
   no package information. This has been corrected in this version.
2) A regression with `releng_copy` has been corrected. When using the copy
   call with a destination of a single relative path, the call would throw an
   exception (e.g. a call such as `releng_copy(src, 'output')` would always
   fail). This was a result of an incorrect check that attempts to ensure the
   output directory exists, and fails to create an "empty" directory. With
   this new release, `releng_copy` properly handles a single relative path.
