# 0.15 (2023-02-12)

## Introduce extension support for event listeners

Support has been added for extensions to listen on various events generated
by releng-tool. Extensions can react to certain events to either manipulate
build content at certain stages or even manipulate the script environment.
Consider the following example which injects a custom function into the script
environment:

```
def releng_setup(app):
    app.connect('post-build-started', on_postbuild)

def on_postbuild(env):
    env['my_function'] = my_function

def my_function():
    return 42
```

With this extension loaded in for a project, the function `my_function` can
now be used in a project's post-build script (e.g. `releng-post-build`).

The following outlines the list of all newly added event types:

- `config-loaded` -- Triggered after a configuration is processed
- `post-build-started` -- Triggered before a post-build event starts
- `post-build-finished` -- Triggered after a post-build event ends

For more information on implementing support to listen for events or creating
extensions in general, see the API implementation found in this tool's
repository ([releng_tool/api/__init__.py][api]).

## Support setting software build of materials format in project configuration

Developers can now specify a target software build of materials (SBOM) format
in a project's configuration file. For example, to produce a JSON formatted
SBOM file over a default text file, the following can be used:

```
sbom_format = 'json'
```

This should allow developers to provide specific SBOM formatted documents for
their builds without needing to supply `--sbom-format` in their terminal or
an external build script.

## Directory configuration for package patching

When a package includes patches to apply after extraction, the target directory
where patches were applied could vary if a project utilized the
`LIBFOO_BUILD_SUBDIR` option. This made the use of patches difficult for users
who had patches designed for the extracted-root of a package, and not
necessarily the root of build scripts for a package.

This release ensures that users can apply patches directly at the root of
packages by no longer considering the configuration `LIBFOO_BUILD_SUBDIR`.
Users who need to utilize patching in a subdirectory of a package can now
use the `LIBFOO_PATCH_SUBDIR` option.

## Make projects provided prefix in installation stage

Project supporting an installation stage will typically handle a destination
directory option (e.g. `DESTDIR`) and a prefix option (`PREFIX`; if
applicable). While various project types are configured/provided these
appropriate options, `make`-based projects were never implicitly provided a
hint to the configured prefix. Packages which wanted to share the configured
prefix for a build needed to explicitly forward the prefix option via a
project's package definition.

This release changes this by always provided the `PREFIX` option when a
Make-based project's installation stage occurs.

## Fixed issue where reconfiguration/rebuild flags may not be set

Projects may define various build conditionals whether the system is a fresh
build or a rebuild. releng-tool provides a series of flags to help projects
understand the running state: `RELENG_REBUILD`, `RELENG_RECONFIGURE` and
`RELENG_REINSTALL`. Unfortunately, previous releases were somewhat inconsistent
to when these flags were enabled. While, for example, a package rebuild
would result in the `RELENG_REBUILD` flag to be set, the `RELENG_REINSTALL`
option may not be set in this case. Developers may have expected the
reinstallation flag be set in this example since the re-build without the
`-only` postfix would automatically process trailing stages.

Changes have been made in this most recent version to ensure appropriate flags
are set. Specifically, a `<pkg>-reconfigure` request will now ensure
`RELENG_REBUILD` and `RELENG_REINSTALL` are set. Also, a `<pkg>-rebuild`
request will now ensure `RELENG_REINSTALL` is set.

[api]: https://github.com/releng-tool/releng-tool/blob/main/releng_tool/api/__init__.py
