# 0.14 (2023-02-05)

## Removal of the deprecated `releng` namespace

It has been over two years since the switch from the `releng` namespace to
the `releng_tool` namespace. Projects using the obsolete namespace for
project scripting support will now be required to update there scripts to
use the most recent version of releng-tool. For projects which still may
be using the obsolete namespace, changes should be as simple as changing
implementation such as:

```
from releng import releng_execute
```

to:

```
from releng_tool import releng_execute
```

All calls supported in the previous namespace will be available in the
new namespace.

## Software build of materials

Projects will now automatically generate a software build of materials
(SBOM) at the end of a build. This can be helpful for environments
which want to have a summary (and even parsable) description of the
package components used, their versions, licenses and more. Users can
find SBOM documents in the configured output folder after a build.

Various SBOM formats are supported. For example, users wanting to
generate a JSON SBOM output can use the `--sbom-format json` argument
on the command line. Generating an SBOM for a project does not require
a build, if desired -- users can generate an SBOM by using the action
`sbom` on a project. For example:

```
$ releng-tool sbom
```

## Promotion of SPDX license identifiers

It is now recommended to use [SPDX license identifiers][spdx] for package
licenses. The goal is to help promote the use of standardized short
identifier for license entries, which can be helpful for environments
wishing to process SBOM output of a releng-tool project for license
analysis.

When a package license is configured and the value does not match a SPDX
license identifier, a warning will be generated. Warnings will also be
generated when using deprecated identifiers as well.

If a package is required to use a license string that is not a listed SPDX
license identifier, extra license and exception identifiers can be
registered in the project's configuration script. See the
`extra_licenses` and `extra_license_exceptions` configuration options
for more details.

Note that releng-tool will not generate a warning if the license value
`Proprietary` is provided.

[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/

## New environment/script variables

This release includes the `*_BIN_DIR` environment/script variables. These
can be used to allow a developer to reference specific bin paths for the
host, staging or target areas. The following lists the newly added
variables:

- `HOST_BIN_DIR` (e.g. `<host-dir>/usr/bin`)
- `STAGING_BIN_DIR` (e.g. `<staging-dir>/usr/bin`)
- `TARGET_BIN_DIR` (e.g. `<target-dir>/usr/bin`)

## New move-into script function

The `releng_move_into` helper function has been added to allow releng-tool
script to explicitly move a source into a target directory. This can be
helpful for users who wish to avoid scenarios using `releng_move` and
needing to ensure the destination directory exists or avoiding the need
to add a trailing file separator at the end of the destination target.
An example of this new call is as follows:

``` python
releng_move_into('my-file', 'my-directory')
```

## Support for Poetry Python setup type

The previous release of releng-tool introduces support for processing
Python packages using various common setup types. This release extends
on this by adding support for [Poetry][poetry].

For example:

``` python
LIBFOO_TYPE = 'python'
LIBFOO_PYTHON_SETUP_TYPE = 'poetry'
```

[poetry]: https://python-poetry.org/
